# RDU

This contains all the configuration and scripting for the Remora Data Unit

# Getting Started

The RDU will run on a BeagleBone Black Wireless. First, download the latest IoT Debian image for BeagleBone from [here](https://debian.beagleboard.org/images/bone-debian-10.3-iot-armhf-2020-04-06-4gb.img.xz) (tested with the 2020-04-06 10.3 release). Then, download [Balena Etcher](https://www.balena.io/etcher/). Plug in your SD card to your computer, and open Balena Etcher. Flash the SD card with the .img.xz Debian image file. Then, plug the SD card into the BeagleBone, and connect the BeagleBone to your computer over microUSB.

The BeagleBone automatically creates a local network with your computer over USB. Once the BeagleBone has booted, you should be able to run `scp beaglebone_initial_setup.sh debian@beaglebone.local:~ && scp replay/canparse.py debian@beaglebone.local:~ && scp replay/remora.dbc debian@beaglebone.local:~ && scp replay/beaglebone_can_upload.sh debian@beaglebone.local:~` via [git bash](https://git-scm.com/downloads). This will copy the initialization script, and CAN parsing code over to the BeagleBone. Then, you can run `ssh debian@beaglebone.local` and use default password `temppwd` to login to the device. Run `find . -maxdepth 1 -type f -print0 | xargs -0 sed -i 's/\r//g'` to convert any Windows-style line endings to unix. Then, run `BEAGLEBONE_WIFI_PASSWORD=123456789 DEBIAN_USER_PASSWORD=topsecret ECHENEIDAE_WIFI_PASSWORD=OfficeWifiPassword DIGITAL_OCEAN_ACCESS_KEY=xxxx DIGITAL_OCEAN_SECRET=yyy ./beaglebone_initial_setup.sh` (replace with appropriate passwords).

You may see `Re-reading the partition table failed.: Device or resource busy` - this is expected and not a critical error. After the script has finished, run `rm beaglebone_initial_setup.sh` and unplug the device from your computer. Then, plug it into a 5V power source, and after a few minutes, the device should advertise a WiFi hotspot of the form `RemoraBone<device_id>`. If you connect to this hotspot, the device will be available over ssh: `ssh debian@192.168.8.1` - remember the password is now the `DEBIAN_USER_PASSWORD` specified above. SSH may give you a host key error when connecting - you can remove the key from `/c/Users/<username>/.ssh/known_hosts` in order to fix the error. Also, the device is now configured to connect to any `Echeneidae` WiFi hotspot. If the BeagleBone is connected to WiFi, and your laptop is connected to the BeagleBone's hotspot, you will continue to have internet access through the BeagleBone.
